Add Post "Introducing KWOK for Istio Control Plane Testing" (#13588)
istio/istio.io: content/en/blog/2023/kwok/index.md

## Why use KWOK?

KWOK has several advantages:

- **Lightweight**: You can simulate thousands of nodes on your laptop without significant consumption of CPU or memory resources.
- **Fast**: You can create and delete clusters and nodes almost instantly, without waiting for boot or provisioning.
- **Compatibility**: KWOK works with any tools or clients that are compliant with Kubernetes APIs, such as kubectl, helm, kui, etc.
- **Portability**: KWOK has no specific hardware or software requirements. You can run it using pre-built images, once Docker/Podman/Nerdctl is installed. Alternatively, binaries are also available for all platforms and can be easily installed.
- **Flexibility**: You can configure different node types, labels, taints, capacities, conditions, etc., and you can configure different pod behaviors, status, etc. to test different scenarios and edge cases.

{{< image width="90%"
    link="./manage-clusters.svg"
    caption="Using kwokctl to manage simulated clusters"
    >}}

## Testing Istio with KWOK

For the latest information, see [KWOK with Istio].

To create a test environment for the Istio control plane with KWOK, you can follow these steps:

### Set up Cluster

> ``` bash
> kwokctl create cluster --runtime kind
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< text bash >}}
$ kwokctl create cluster --runtime kind
{{< /text >}}
```

### Create Node

> ``` bash
> kubectl apply -f https://kwok.sigs.k8s.io/examples/node.yaml
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl apply -f https://kwok.sigs.k8s.io/examples/node.yaml
{{< /text >}}
```

### Deploy Istio

{{< text bash >}}
$ istioctl install -y
{{< /text >}}

### Migrate Controllers to Real Node

> We need to use [KIND] to run the controller because [KWOK] itself cannot actually run a Pod.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We need to use [KIND](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/) to run the controller because [KWOK](https://kwok.sigs.k8s.io/) itself cannot actually run a Pod.
```

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl patch deploy istiod -n istio-system --type=json -p='[{"op":"add","path":"/spec/template/spec/nodeName","value":"kwok-kwok-control-plane"}]'
$ kubectl patch deploy istio-ingressgateway -n istio-system --type=json -p='[{"op":"add","path":"/spec/template/spec/nodeName","value":"kwok-kwok-control-plane"}]'
{{< /text >}}

### Create Pod and Inject Sidecar

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl label namespace default istio-injection=enabled
$ kubectl apply -f {{< github_file >}}/samples/bookinfo/platform/kube/bookinfo.yaml
{{< /text >}}

You will see that the Pod is running on a fake node. However, it is still an injected sidecar.

## Limitations

Currently, we can only simulate the cluster data, but the real environment is actually connected with Sidecar's xDS, which cannot be simulated by KWOK.

So we need a KWOK-based xDS client generator to complete the stress simulation, which is not yet available.

## Getting Involved

> If you're interested in participating in future discussions or development related to [KWOK], there are several ways to get involved:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you're interested in participating in future discussions or development related to [KWOK](https://kwok.sigs.k8s.io/), there are several ways to get involved:
```

> - Slack: [#kwok] for general usage discussion, [#kwok-dev] for development discussion. (visit [slack.k8s.io] for a workspace invitation)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Slack: [#kwok](https://kubernetes.slack.com/messages/kwok/) for general usage discussion, [#kwok-dev](https://kubernetes.slack.com/messages/kwok-dev/) for development discussion. (visit [slack.k8s.io](https://slack.k8s.io/) for a workspace invitation)
```

> - Open Issues/PRs/Discussions in [sigs.k8s.io/kwok]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Open Issues/PRs/Discussions in [sigs.k8s.io/kwok](https://sigs.k8s.io/kwok/)
```

We welcome feedback and contributions from anyone who would like to join us in this exciting project.

> [sigs.k8s.io/kwok]: https://sigs.k8s.io/kwok/
> [#kwok]: https://kubernetes.slack.com/messages/kwok/
> [#kwok-dev]: https://kubernetes.slack.com/messages/kwok-dev/
> [slack.k8s.io]: https://slack.k8s.io/
> [KWOK]: https://kwok.sigs.k8s.io/
> [KIND]: https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/
> [KWOK with Istio]: https://kwok.sigs.k8s.io/docs/examples/istio/
> [Istio in Kind]: https://istio.io/latest/docs/setup/platform-setup/kind/

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

{{< /text >}}

You will see that the Pod is running on a fake node. However, it is still an injected sidecar.

## Limitations

With KWOK alone, we can only simulate the cluster data,
while the real environment is also connected with Sidecar's xDS, which cannot be simulated.
We need a xDS client connection generator to complete the load simulation.

### pilot-load

[pilot-load](https://github.com/howardjohn/pilot-load) is a tool to generate xDS client connections to a pilot instance.

Just need to sue `pilot-load cluster` the --cluster-type has 3 modes:

- real: actually create real pods. Can be combined with kwok to make those 0 cost
- fake-node: replace kwok basically. Create real pods but assign to fake nodes
- fake: connect to a plain apiserver with no controller-manager at all

We can use `pilot-load cluster --cluster-type real` with `kwokctl create cluster` to simulate a complete Istio control plane performance test.

## Look ahead

I have an idea for `pilot-load` to support `kwok` directly, but it is not implemented yet.

That is `pilot-load` watches all the pods managed by kwok and emulates the xDS client.

> Then we can then manipulate the resource, view the metrics panel and stress test it as we normally would with Istio.

Author: @howardjohn

This is what I did in that demo project, it's very simple in principle and code, but it's a great experience.

---

Looking for a reliable way to test your Istio control plane at scale?
Have you ever wondered how you could set up a cluster of thousands of nodes, simulate real nodes with a low resource footprint, and test at scale without spending a lot of money on infrastructure?
Look no further! [KWOK] makes it easy.

In this article, we'll introduce [KWOK] and show you how to test Istio with [KWOK].

## What is KWOK?

KWOK stands for Kubernetes WithOut Kubelet. So far, it provides two tools:

`kwok`
: `kwok` is the cornerstone of this project, responsible for simulating the lifecycle of fake nodes, pods, and other Kubernetes API resources.

`kwokctl`
: `kwokctl` is a CLI tool designed to streamline the creation and management of clusters, with nodes simulated by `kwok`.

## Why use KWOK?

KWOK has several advantages:

- **Lightweight**: You can simulate thousands of nodes on your laptop without significant consumption of CPU or memory resources.
- **Fast**: You can create and delete clusters and nodes almost instantly, without waiting for boot or provisioning.
- **Compatibility**: [KWOK] works with any tools or clients that are compliant with Kubernetes APIs, such as kubectl, helm, etc.

> - **Portability**: [KWOK] has no specific hardware or software requirements. You can run it using prebuilt images, once Docker/Podman/Nerdctl is installed. Alternatively, binaries are also available for all platforms and can be easily installed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Portability**: [KWOK] has no specific hardware or software requirements. You can run it using prebuilt images, once Docker/Podman/nerdctl is installed. Alternatively, binaries are also available for all platforms and can be easily installed.
```

$ kwokctl create cluster --runtime kind
{{< /text >}}

### Create Node

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl apply -f https://kwok.sigs.k8s.io/examples/node.yaml
{{< /text >}}

### Deploy Istio

{{< text bash >}}
$ istioctl install -y
{{< /text >}}

### Migrate Controllers to Real Node

We need to use [kind] to run the controller because [KWOK] itself cannot actually run a Pod.

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl patch deploy istiod -n istio-system --type=json -p='[{"op":"add","path":"/spec/template/spec/nodeName","value":"kwok-kwok-control-plane"}]'
$ kubectl patch deploy istio-ingressgateway -n istio-system --type=json -p='[{"op":"add","path":"/spec/template/spec/nodeName","value":"kwok-kwok-control-plane"}]'
{{< /text >}}

### Create Pod and Inject Sidecar

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl label namespace default istio-injection=enabled
$ kubectl apply -f {{< github_file >}}/samples/bookinfo/platform/kube/bookinfo.yaml
{{< /text >}}

You will see that the Pod is running on a fake node. However, it is still an injected sidecar.

## Limitations

Currently, we can only simulate the cluster data, but the real environment is actually connected with Sidecar's xDS, which cannot be simulated by [KWOK].

> So we need a [KWOK] based xDS client connect generator to complete the stress simulation, which is not yet available.

Author: I made a component [pwod](https://github.com/wzshiming/pwod) that generates xds connections based on pod data from a kwok cluster and it feels good!

---
title: "Introducing KWOK for Istio Control Plane Testing"
description: "Looking for a reliable way to test your Istio control plane at scale? Have you ever wondered how you could set up a cluster of thousands of nodes, simulate real nodes with a low resource footprint, and test at scale without spending a lot of money on infrastructure? Look no further! KWOK makes it easy."
publishdate: 2023-07-20
attribution: "Shiming Zhang (DaoCloud)"
keywords: [Istio, kwok, testing]
---

Looking for a reliable way to test your Istio control plane at scale?
Have you ever wondered how you could set up a cluster of thousands of nodes,
simulate real nodes with a low resource footprint, and test at scale without spending a lot of money on infrastructure?
Look no further! KWOK makes it easy.

In this article, we'll introduce KWOK and show you how to test Istio with KWOK.

## What is KWOK?

KWOK stands for Kubernetes WithOut Kubelet. So far, it provides two tools:

`kwok`
: `kwok` is the cornerstone of this project, responsible for simulating the lifecycle of

> fake nodes, pods, and other Kubernetes API resources.

Reviewer 4: Looking at the page, this section seems like it could be formatted differently. Just placing the tools above the description looks out of place. Maybe as a bullet point with a description like the advantages.

`kwokctl`
: `kwokctl` is a CLI tool designed to streamline the creation and management of clusters,
with nodes simulated by `kwok`.

## Why use KWOK?

KWOK has several advantages:

- **Lightweight**: You can simulate thousands of nodes on your laptop without significant consumption
  of CPU or memory resources.
- **Fast**: You can create and delete clusters and nodes almost instantly,
  without waiting for boot or provisioning.
- **Compatibility**: KWOK works with any tools or clients that are compliant with Kubernetes APIs,
  such as kubectl, helm, etc.
- **Portability**: KWOK has no specific hardware or software requirements.
  You can run it using prebuilt images, once Docker/Podman/nerdctl is installed.
  Alternatively, binaries are also available for all platforms and can be easily installed.
- **Flexibility**: You can configure different node types, labels, taints, capacities, conditions, etc.,
  and you can configure different pod behaviors, status, etc. to test different scenarios and edge cases.

{{< image width="90%"
    link="./manage-clusters.svg"
    caption="Using kwokctl to manage simulated clusters"
    >}}

## Testing Istio with KWOK

> For the latest information, see [KWOK with Istio](https://kwok.sigs.k8s.io/docs/examples/istio/).

Reviewer 4: The information here is copy of the link. Maybe move this paragraph inside a Tip section and place after the next paragraph.

To create a test environment for the Istio control plane with [KWOK](https://kwok.sigs.k8s.io/),
you can follow these steps:

### Set up Cluster

{{< text bash >}}
$ kwokctl create cluster --runtime kind
{{< /text >}}

### Create Node

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl apply -f https://kwok.sigs.k8s.io/examples/node.yaml
{{< /text >}}

### Deploy Istio

{{< text bash >}}
$ istioctl install -y
{{< /text >}}

### Migrate Controllers to Real Node

We need to use [kind](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/) to run the controller because KWOK itself cannot actually run a Pod.

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl patch deploy istiod -n istio-system --type=json -p='[{"op":"add","path":"/spec/template/spec/nodeName","value":"kwok-kwok-control-plane"}]'
{{< /text >}}

### Create Pod and Inject Sidecar

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl label namespace default istio-injection=enabled
$ kubectl apply -f {{< github_file >}}/samples/bookinfo/platform/kube/bookinfo.yaml
{{< /text >}}

You will see that the Pod is running on a fake node. However, it is still an injected sidecar.

## Limitations

> With KWOK alone, we can only simulate the cluster data,
> but the real environment is actually also connected with Sidecar's xDS, which cannot be simulated.
> So we need a KWOK based xDS client connection generator to complete the load simulation,
> I made a [PWOD](https://github.com/wzshiming/pwod) to simulate the xDS client connection.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
With KWOK alone, we can only simulate the cluster data,
while the real environment is also connected with Sidecar's xDS, which cannot be simulated.
We need a KWOK based xDS client connection generator to complete the load simulation, so
I made [PWOD](https://github.com/wzshiming/pwod) to simulate the xDS client connection.
```

> I made a [PWOD](https://github.com/wzshiming/pwod) to simulate the xDS client connection.

Reviewer 5: Saying you _made_ this feels a bit disingenuous. As far as I can tell, what was done is a library that *I made*, https://github.com/howardjohn/pilot-load/, was both directly copy+pasted and imported directly, without attribution. The whole library is 300 lines of code with virtually every line identically copied from `pilot-load`.

I am happy to see more work in performance testing area, and happy to collaborate in that regard. While I am sure you had good intentions this feels more like stealing my work and passing it off as your own (and then publicizing it on a blog that I am heavily involved in...).

Would it make sense to just directly use `pilot-load` here? As far as I can tell `pwod` is just a strict subset of `pilot-load` -- its not clear why another project is needed, even ignoring attribution issues.

Technically you could replace the entire blog with `pilot-load`, as it can do the work of `kwok` for the purpose of Istio testing... but I can understand why that would not be desired :slightly_smiling_face:

Reviewer 6: ![image](https://github.com/istio/istio.io/assets/132510/0719cb9e-c3fc-4fbc-849d-4d94e43c3527|width=250)

Author: > Saying you made this feels a bit disingenuous. As far as I can tell, what was done is a library that I made, https://github.com/howardjohn/pilot-load/, was both directly copy+pasted and imported directly, without attribution. The whole library is 300 lines of code with virtually every line identically copied from pilot-load.

The demo project is something I realized I missed while making this post.
The `go.mod` of the project in it references pilot-load directly and then rewrites the entry point, referencing only a few needed packages, for a quick implementation of my idea.

I [left a comment on your issue](https://github.com/howardjohn/pilot-load/issues/9#issuecomment-1641466182) almost the same day I made the demo to get your opinion.

> I am happy to see more work in performance testing area, and happy to collaborate in that regard. While I am sure you had good intentions this feels more like stealing my work and passing it off as your own (and then publicizing it on a blog that I am heavily involved in...).

I apologize for making you feel offended. 🙏🙏🙏

> Would it make sense to just directly use pilot-load here? As far as I can tell pwod is just a strict subset of pilot-load -- its not clear why another project is needed, even ignoring attribution issues.
> Technically you could replace the entire blog with pilot-load, as it can do the work of kwok for the purpose of Istio testing... but I can understand why that would not be desired 🙂

I agree with you.

3 years ago when I was actually doing a production press test for Istio, and I ended up abstracting two parts of the logic from the test, [wzshiming/xds](https://github.com/wzshiming/xds) and [fake-kubelet](https://github.com/wzshiming/fake-kubelet/tree/v0.2.0), originally I wanted to use the xds for the demo, but I felt that the dependency hadn't been maintained in 3 years, so I referenced the xds from pilot-load.

I took over this test task from someone else, that code that was hard-coded to inject test data into the Istio source code for the purpose of pressure testing, and I spent a lot of time learning about Istio and completely rewriting the test code.

Then I realized that most of the testers using it weren't interested in understanding the principles behind it and just wanted to test it in the most intuitive and simple way possible.

Reviewer 5: I didn't mean to come off as super offended, mostly just surprised. I think kwok is a really great idea but it seems like the xds part can just be a part of pilot-load. I am happy to collaborate there, and possibly in this blog if you are interested, accept PRs there, even move it to a neutral location if desired. Let me know what interests you

Author: of course，thank you

Author: Could you add something that describes how to use the pilot-load with kwok?

Reviewer 5: Just need to sue `pilot-load cluster`. The `--cluster-type` has 3 modes:

* real: actually create real pods. Can be combined with kwok to make those 0 cost
* fake-node: replace kwok basically. Create real pods but assign to fake nodes
* Fake: connect to a plain apiserver with no controller-manager at all

---
title: "Introducing KWOK for Istio Control Plane Testing"
description: "Looking for a reliable way to test your Istio control plane at scale? Have you ever wondered how you could set up a cluster of thousands of nodes, simulate real nodes with a low resource footprint, and test at scale without spending a lot of money on infrastructure? Look no further! KWOK makes it easy."
publishdate: 2023-07-20
attribution: "Shiming Zhang (DaoCloud)"
keywords: [Istio, kwok, testing]
---

Looking for a reliable way to test your Istio control plane at scale?
Have you ever wondered how you could set up a cluster of thousands of nodes, simulate real nodes with a low resource footprint, and test at scale without spending a lot of money on infrastructure?

> Look no further! [KWOK] makes it easy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Look no further! [KWOK](https://kwok.sigs.k8s.io/) makes it easy.
```

`kwokctl`
: `kwokctl` is a CLI tool designed to streamline the creation and management of clusters, with nodes simulated by `kwok`.

## Why use KWOK?

KWOK has several advantages:

- **Lightweight**: You can simulate thousands of nodes on your laptop without significant consumption of CPU or memory resources.
- **Fast**: You can create and delete clusters and nodes almost instantly, without waiting for boot or provisioning.
- **Compatibility**: KWOK works with any tools or clients that are compliant with Kubernetes APIs, such as kubectl, helm, kui, etc.
- **Portability**: KWOK has no specific hardware or software requirements. You can run it using pre-built images, once Docker/Podman/Nerdctl is installed. Alternatively, binaries are also available for all platforms and can be easily installed.
- **Flexibility**: You can configure different node types, labels, taints, capacities, conditions, etc., and you can configure different pod behaviors, status, etc. to test different scenarios and edge cases.

{{< image width="90%"
    link="./manage-clusters.svg"
    caption="Using kwokctl to manage simulated clusters"
    >}}

## Testing Istio with KWOK

> For the latest information, see [KWOK with Istio].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the latest information, see [KWOK with Istio](https://kwok.sigs.k8s.io/docs/examples/istio/).
```
